
Q What is Cloud ?

Ans: Cloud computing is the delivery of on-demand computing services -- 
	 from applications to storage and processing power -- typically over the internet and on a pay-as-you-go basis.
	 
	 Rather than owning their own computing infrastructure or data centers, companies can rent access to anything 
	 from applications to storage from a cloud service provider.

	One benefit of using cloud computing services is that firms can avoid the upfront cost and complexity of owning 
	and maintaining their own IT infrastructure, and instead simply pay for what they use, when they use it.
	

Q What are the Different types of Cloud ?

Ans: Public Cloud -

	 Some public cloud examples include those offered by Amazon, Microsoft, or Google. 
	 These companies provide both services and infrastructure, which are shared by all customers. 
	 Public clouds typically have massive amounts of available space, which translates into easy scalability. 
	 A public cloud is often recommended for software development and collaborative projects. 
	 Companies can design their applications to be portable, so that a project that’s tested in the public cloud can be moved to the private cloud for production. 
	 Most cloud providers package their computing resources as part of a service. 
	 Public cloud examples range from access to a completely virtualized infrastructure that provides little more than raw 
	 processing power and storage (Infrastructure as a Service, or IaaS) to specialized software programs that are easy to implement and 
	 use (Software as a Service, or SaaS). 

	The great advantage of a public cloud is its versatility and “pay as you go” structure that allows customers to provision more capacity on demand. 
	On the downside, the essential infrastructure and operating system of the public cloud remain under full control of the cloud provider. 
	Customers may continue to use the platform under the terms and conditions laid out by the provider, 
	but they may have difficulty repatriating their assets if they want to change providers. Should the provider go out of business or make significant 
	changes to the platform, customers could be forced to make significant infrastructure changes on short notice.

	Private Cloud -
	
	Private clouds usually reside behind a firewall and are utilized by a single organization. 
	A completely on-premises cloud may be the preferred solution for businesses with very tight regulatory requirements, 
	though private clouds implemented through a colocation provider are gaining in popularity. 
	Authorized users can access, utilize, and store data in the private cloud from anywhere, just like they could with a public cloud. 
	The difference is that no one else can access or utilize those computing resources. 
	Private cloud solutions offer both security and control, but these benefits come at a cost. 
	The company that owns the cloud is responsible for both software and infrastructure, making this a less economical model than the public cloud.

	The additional control offered by a private cloud makes it easier to restrict access to valuable assets and ensures that a 
	company will be able to move its data and applications where it wants, whenever it wants. 
	Furthermore, since the private cloud isn’t controlled by an outside vendor, there’s no risk of sudden changes disrupting the company’s entire infrastructure. 
	A private cloud solution will also not be affected by a public cloud provider’s system downtime. But private clouds also lack the versatility of public clouds. 
	They can only be expanded by adding more physical compute and storage capacity, making it difficult to scale operations quickly should the business need arise.
	
	Hybrid Cloud -
	
	Hybrid clouds combine public clouds with private clouds. 
	They are designed to allow the two platforms to interact seamlessly, with data and applications moving seamlessly from one to the other. 

	The primary advantage of a hybrid cloud model is its ability to provide the scalable computing power of a public cloud with the security and control 
	of a private cloud. Data can be stored safely behind the firewalls and encryption protocols of the private cloud, then moved securely into a public 
	cloud environment when needed. This is especially helpful in the age of big data analytics, when industries like healthcare must adhere to strict data 
	privacy regulations while also using sophisticated algorithms powered by artificial intelligence (AI) to derive actionable insights from huge masses of 
	unstructured data. 

	There are two commonly used types of hybrid cloud architecture. 
	Cloudbursting uses a private cloud as its primary cloud, storing data and housing proprietary applications in a secure environment. 
	When service demands increase, however, the private cloud’s infrastructure may not have the capacity to keep up. That’s where the public cloud comes in. 
	A cloudbursting model uses the public cloud’s computing resources to supplement the private cloud, allowing the company to handle increased traffic 
	without having to purchase new servers or other infrastructure.

	The second type of hybrid cloud model also runs most applications and houses data in a private cloud environment, 
	but outsources non-critical applications to a public cloud provider. This arrangement is common for organizations that need to access specialized 
	development tools (like Adobe Creative Cloud), basic productivity software (like Microsoft Office 365), or CRM platforms (like Salesforce). 
	Multi-cloud architecture is often deployed here, incorporating multiple cloud service providers to meet a variety of unique organizational needs.
	
	
Q  What are the Advantage of the Cloud ?

Ans: 

	1. Less Costs
	The services are free from capital expenditure. There are no huge costs of hardware in cloud computing. 
	You just have to pay as you operate it and enjoy the model based on your subscription plan.

	2. 24 X 7 Availability
	Most of the cloud providers are truly reliable in offering their services, with most of them maintaining an uptime of 99.9%. 
	The workers can get onto the applications needed basically from anywhere. Some of the applications even function off-line.
	
	3. Flexibility in Capacity
	It offers flexible facility which could be turned off, up or down as per the circumstances of the user. 
	For instance, a promotion of sales is very popular, capacity can be immediately and quickly added to it for the avoidance of losing sales 
	and crashing servers. When those sales are done, the capacity can also be shrunk for the reduction of costs.
	
	4. All over Functioning
	Cloud computing offers yet another advantage of working from anywhere across the globe, as long as you have an internet connection. 
	Even while using the critical cloud services that offer mobile apps, there is no limitation of the device used.
	
	5. Automated Updates on Software
	In cloud computing, the server suppliers regularly update your software including the updates on security, 
	so that you do not need to agonize on wasting your crucial time on maintaining the system. 
	You find extra time to focus on the important things like ‘How to grow your businesses.
	
	6. Security
	Cloud computing offers great security when any sensitive data has been lost. As the data is stored in the system, 
	it can be easily accessed even if something happens to your computer. You can even remotely wipe out data from the lost machines for 
	avoiding it getting in the wrong hands.
	
	
Q What is EC2 in AWS ?

Ans: Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. 
	 It is designed to make web-scale cloud computing easier for developers. 
	 Amazon EC2’s simple web service interface allows you to obtain and configure capacity with minimal friction. 
	 It provides you with complete control of your computing resources and lets you run on Amazon’s proven computing environment.	
	
	Reliable, Scalable, Infrastructure On Demand
	Increase or decrease capacity within minutes, not hours or days

	SLA commitment of 99.99% availability for each Amazon EC2 region. Each region consists of at least 3 availability zones

	The AWS Region/AZ model has been recognized by Gartner as the recommended approach for running enterprise applications that require high availability
	
	
	